Before editing
Read replit.md.

Read focusflow-linux-handoff.md.

Read focusflow-linux-plan.md and focusflow-linux-tracker.md.

Read the relevant section of focusflow-linux-tracker.html if the task is part of the Linux migration.

Read .agents/memory/MEMORY.md and any linked topic relevant to the code.

Run this lightweight safety check:

git status --short

Do not run git log or a full diff routinely. Use them only when the handoff is unclear, unexpected files appear, or the task is destructive.

Search the current code and call sites for the task before trusting an older prompt. Documentation can be stale; the current implementation wins.

Choose one narrow task. State its task ID and acceptance checks in the handoff before making changes.

Non-negotiable rules
Preserve the Windows implementation. Add Linux branches beside it; do not replace or delete working Windows paths.
Do not duplicate an existing workflow, helper, model field, or dependency without checking the current code first.
Keep database, filesystem, process, image, and package I/O off the UI thread.
Keep platform-specific code behind platform guards.
Do not claim a Linux or Wayland capability that was not tested or clearly documented as a limitation.
Do not make unrelated refactors.
Do not use a successful compile as the only proof that a task is complete.
After editing
Run a targeted compile/test first.
Run the relevant Gradle test, package task, or manual environment check.
Tick the matching checkbox in focusflow-linux-tracker.md only when its acceptance checks pass.
If the implementation state changed, update the matching default status or prompt in focusflow-linux-tracker.html; do not rely on browser-only state.
Update focusflow-linux-handoff.md with:
the task ID and status;
files changed;
commands/checks run and their results;
any environment limitation;
the next uncompleted task.
End with a concise handoff so the next agent can continue without repeating the investigation.
If you cannot complete the task, leave it unchecked, record the exact blocker, and identify the smallest next action. Never silently skip it.